== Introduction

This is the first version of the 'ENCRE project' videochat
component. It is currently in alpha stage and still lacks of tons of
features but it's a good starting point for distribution developper to
start interact with a red5 server, ActionScript code and the API.

This repository (on GitHub) is the reference regarding code and
documentation of the videochat component.

=== Outside the box

This small paragraph is intented for people who are not member of the
ENCRE project (a french project aimed at easing meetings).  On this
repository you will find a simple Red5 based video conferencing system
which aims are simplicity, limited use of flash technologies and ease
of integration into REST-based web applications.

=== Important notes

This code is developped on Ubuntu and Debian systems so most of the
documentation will be done from the point of view of these
distributions. Translating from these distributions to another should
not be to hard provided you have some knowledge of the source and
destinations systems.

This server-side component is not and will not be tested on Win32/64
and OSX systems, althought it might work on these platforms without
much changes.

The ActionScript code contained in this repository is given as an
example and for demonstration and testing purposes only. Support will
be provided on it whenever possible but it is not officialy part of
this component.

== Directory layout and important files

[./] Root of the project
[./README.rdoc] This file.
[./WEB-INF/] Red5 Application code folder, see the _Application_ subsection.
[./tools/] Contains tools which might help you (or not) running the server. See the _Tools_ subsection.
[./flash/] Contains an example of client of the component with flash
           code and a tiny webapp for launching flash widgets, see the _Flash_ subsection.

== Installation

In this section i will explain, using a step-by-step procedure, how to
install the component on you workstation/server, allowing you to start
playing with it, integrating it and understanding its API.

=== Prerequisites

As stated earlier, i recommend following this procedure on an recent
Ubuntu or Debian distributions. Adapting the procedure to another
distribution shouldn't be too hard but for the first time, try to use
the recommended environment and settings.

==== Software and libraries.

Before starting to follow the installation guide, check you have the
following packages installed on your system and install them if you
don't:

(All the items in the list that starts with an ! are not currently
required but will soon be. They are here as a reminder)

* A JDK 1.6 (I will assume OpenJDK (openjdk-6-jdk) through the rest of this guide.)
* ant
* git-core
* build-essential (iirc, it is only for GNU Make)
* unzip
* ruby1.8
* ruby1.8-dev
* ruby
* rake
* rubygems1.8
* The following ruby gems (install using `gem install xxx` (as root))
  * gemcutter
  * sinatra
  * haml
  * json
  * rest-client
  * mongrel
* The latest stable OpenSource Flex SDK from Adobe (http://opensource.adobe.com/wiki/display/flexsdk/Download+Flex+4)
* Your favorite text editor

=== Red5

The component use jruby and the ability of the Red5 server to load and
run Ruby code in order to ease development of the component. This is
somewhat tricky to setup because in the recent binary release of Red5
it seems that there are some required java archives (jar) missing. Due
to this, the current recommended way of installing the Red5 server is
to use the provided archive.

You could find this archive here : http://github.com/epitech-labfree/encrev1/downloads
Please double check you download the last version.

=== Setup guide

(Open a terminal, this guide assumes a bash compatible shell)

==== Installing Red5 and Flex

Fetch and unpack the Red5 server binary release into a folder of you
choice. Then define the RED5_HOME environment variable to the path
of the red5 folder

  $ cd ~/encre_video && tar xzf red5-x.y.z-encre.tar.gz && export RED5_HOME=~/encre_video/red5-x.y.z/

Fetch and unpack the OpenSource Flex SDK, then define the FLEX_HOME
environment variable to the path of the flex sdk folder

  $ mkdir ~/encre_video/flex && cd ~/encre_video/flex && unzip ../flex_sdk_x.y.zip && export FLEX_HOME=~/encre_video/flex

==== Fetching and deploying the encre red5 application

Grab the latest source of the video component (this repository). The
following command should create you a encrev1 folder in ~/encre_video
containing the latest source. You could update it later by issuing the
command `git pull origin master`

  $ cd ~/encre_video && git clone git://github.com/epitech-labfree/encrev1.git

Install the videochat component into the Red5 Server by creating a
symlink to the encrev1 folder in the red5 webapps subfolder.

  $ ln -s ~/encre_video/encrev1 ~/encre_video/red5-x.y.z/webapps

You could now test that these parts are correctly installed

  $ cd ~/encre_video/red5-x.y.z/ && ./red5.sh

Don't worry about the "warning: could not compile: because of:
"Illegal class name "" in class file ", this is a known Spring bug (a
framework Red5 uses). If you see the following message : "Initializing
ENCRE VideoChat v1....  ..Done", the application has been successfully
installed.

Note that you could use the JAVA_OPTS environment variable to pass
option to the Java VM, these one could be helpfull :
* -Djruby.jit.logging.verbose=true gives a more verbose output from Jruby inside Red5
* -client speeds up the start of Red5 by not compiling everything but slows the average speed of the server (usefull for tests.)

==== Running the Encre Platform Mock

Since the encre platform and especially the video api is not yet
finished and available and because it could be handy for testing and
development purpose, a small mock has been developped for the Encre
Platform. It is a small web application that reproduces the (expected)
behavior of the Core of the encre platform. It is currently needed if
you want to user the videochat component. Tu run it, open another term
and issue the following command:

  $ cd ~/encre_video/encrev1/tools/ && ruby encre-platform-mock.rb

==== Building and running the demo client

Code is sometimes more helpfull to developpers than tons of pages of
documentations and specifications. Following this principle, an
example of flash widgets supporting the api and of a small web
application powering it is provided. These will be maintained in sync
with the current state of the code and of the specification.

In order to build the flash/flex clients, please check the flex sdk is
correctly setup and you have set the FLEX_HOME env variable
accordingly then run:

  $ cd ~/encre_video/encrev1/flash && make

Finally run it with:

  $ cd ~/encre_video/encrev1/flash && ruby flash_widgets_server.rb -p 1234

==== Using the examples

Check that Red5, Encre Platform Mock and example server are running.
You could now open your flash-enabled browser and go to http://localhost:1234


== Components
=== The Red5 Application

This is mainly the code you will find here. This is the main part of the videochat component. It is responsible of managing the chat rooms and their streams. It (will) perform the control and authorization as well as the recording of the video streams.

=== The Tools

The tool section currently only contains a mock for the Encre Platform, reproducing its expected behavior regarding auth and event passing. You can configure it simply by editing the encre-platform-mock.rb file to specify which token are authorized to do what and what do do when receiving events.

Currently, you have to run the encre-platform-mock.rb script to allow the red5 application to start. If you don't, the application won't be able to authorize itself nor the clients connections and actions and will simply refuse to start.

=== The flash code

The flash folder contains examples web application and flash widgets
codes to help distributors and integrators to work with the videochat.

The widget folder contains two sample flash widgets implementing the
(currently very simple) encre video auth api:
* receive_video contains a simple player which will authorized itself on the red5 application and display the stream on the server you provided as parameters.
* publish_video authorized itself and then publish the stream at the place provided as parameter.

Finaly, the small flash_widgets_server.rb web application simply
provides forms to instanciate flash widgets with the correct
parameters. It is kind of the simplest ditribution using the videochat
component you could imagine.

== Common Errors

In this section, most common error will be listed along with their
solutions. As java error can be very (very) long and especially when
the problematic code is executed in an application server, only the
characteristic portion of the error will be given. It's up to you to
find it! (It's generally a good idea to start reading the stack trace
from the end)

[no such file to load -- 'encre_auth'] The $RED_HOME environment variable is not properly set or you are not running the red5*sh scripts from the red5 directory.
[no such file to load -- 'rest_client' or 'json'] The rest-client or json_pure gems are not installed or where not installed by the user who runs the applications (jruby gems are installed in ~/.gem/jruby, and on debian the systems gems are not where jruby expects them).

== Ucengine setup

...

You first need to create an user for the encre-video component.

  ./bin/ucectl user add --domain localhost --uid encre-video --auth password --credential '123456'
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid encre-video --object presence --action add
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid encre-video --object presence --action delete
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid encre-video --object event --action list
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid encre-video --object event --action get
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid encre-video --object roster --action list

Now update the api/platform.yml file with these informations. (edit the uid and token items, with the provided uid and credential)

Then, uou might want to add some users to ucengine to be able to use the component, you will also need a meeting, and give some right on the meeting to these users.

  ./bin/ucectl user add --domain localhost --uid toto --auth password --credential '123456'
  ./bin/ucectl user add --domain localhost --uid tata --auth password --credential '123456'
  ./bin/ucectl meeting add --domain localhost --name 'test-meeting'
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid toto --object presence --action add
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid toto --object presence --action delete
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid tata --object presence --action add
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid tata --object presence --action delete
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid 'toto' --meeting 'test-meeting' --object 'roster' --action 'add'
  ./bin/ucectl acl add --domain localhost --uid 'tata' --meeting 'test-meeting' --object 'roster' --action 'add'

You now have a really simple setup to be able to use the Encre video v1 component.

- ajouter un utilisateur pour red5 "encre-video" -> voir platform.yml
- creer des utilisateurs de test (toto, tata)
- cree un meeting de test "caca"
- donne des droits d'acces au meeting a cet utilisateur (ucectl acl add -- ....) (voir la doc de ucengine, notamment les examples sur les acls)



